%OP%VS4.50/41 (19-Mar-2013), PipeDream, R0123 4567 8901 2345
%OP%FM3
%OP%BM0
%OP%LM6
%OP%FGHomerton.Medium
%OP%FX160
%OP%FY160
%OP%FS0
%OP%PT1
%OP%PDDefault
%OP%WC2,910,280,1364,0,17,0,16
%OP%LC0,4
%OP%FR0,16
%CO:A,10,41%Rainfall
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec

Average rainfall was @B17@

Average:


This file gives an exercise in creating 
charts in PipeDream version 4.12 or 
later.  It is best done in a wide screen 
mode.

1. Making a chart

To create a chart for this data mark a 
block from A1 to D13 and select New 
Chart from the Charts menu.

2. Try changing the figures in the 
spreadsheet to see the chart update 
dynamically.

3. Different chart types

Investigate different chart types by 
clicking on icons in the galleries in 
the Chart window menu.  For the time 
being, don't click on the penguins; 
there are too many numbers in this file 
to give sensible penguin graphics.

4. Making selections.

Making selections and applying styles to 
them is the way you can specify exactly 
how the chart should look.  This is a 
very important part of PipeDream's 
charts and it is worth spending a little 
time to understand it thoroughly.

First, to make a selection of something 
in the chart, point at it and press the 
left button on the mouse.  You should 
see a dotted line around your selection 
and the name of your selection will 
appear in the top left of the Chart 
window.  Try clicking at different 
places in the chart to see what you can 
select.  Also, try clicking in the 
information box at the top left of the 
window.  This will select the next 
element in the chart.

In a bar or line chart, try changing the 
colour of Series 1 in the chart by 
selecting it and using Fill Colour on 
the Selection menu.

5. Try adding your own labels to the 
chart by using the New Text option.  
You can move a label around by selecting 
it and dragging it across the chart.  
Keep it selected and change its style by 
selecting the Font Selector from 
Text Style...

Try adding a live label.  Mark slot A15 
(make sure you mark just the slot and 
not the whole row) containing the text 
"Average rainfall was..." and select Add 
to chart from the PipeDream Chart menu.  
This will add the label to the chart.  
Change one of the values and see the 
label change on the chart.

6. Try adding a backdrop to the chart.  
Select the plot area and drag in the 
file BackDrop from the Worldcup 
directory on this disc.  BackDrop is an 
ordinary draw file; you can create your 
backdrops with any drawing or painting 
package which saves draw or sprite 
files.

7. Try dragging the legend box around.  
The legend box will probably appear at 
the right-hand side of the chart to 
start with.  

8. Try changing the font size of the 
axis labels.  Click on the axis labels 
to select the axis and change the font 
in the Text style selector of the 
Selection menu.

9. Try switching grid lines on and off.  
Grid lines are attributes of the 
vertical and horizontal axes.  To switch 
horizontal grid lines on, these are 
lines running from left to right, you 
will need to select Axis 2, the vertical 
axis.  Do this by clicking on one of the 
numbers up the side of the chart. Then 
bring up the axis dialogue box by 
clicking on Axis in the Selection 
sub-menu.

On the right of the axis dialogue box 
you will see a box called Major tick 
interval.  In this box is a switch 
called Grid lines.  Click on this to 
switch it on or off and then click on OK 
to redraw the chart.

10. Try changing the sizes of different 
parts of the chart in the Options box 
from the main chart menu.  To make way 
for a larger title you might increase 
the top margin.  To give a little more 
room for labels across the bottom axis 
you might increase the width of the 
chart.
%CO:B,6,31%1988
%V%%R%40
%V%%R%14
%V%%R%15
%V%%R%7
%V%%R%3
%V%%R%12
%V%%R%2
%V%%R%4
%V%%R%8
%V%%R%18
%V%%R%25
%V%%R%23



%V%%R%avg(B2D13)
%CO:C,6,25%1989
%V%%R%23
%V%%R%17
%V%%R%14
%V%%R%11
%V%%R%12
%V%%R%12
%V%%R%24
%V%%R%9
%V%%R%12
%V%%R%18
%V%%R%27
%V%%R%22
%CO:D,6,19%1990
%V%%R%18
%V%%R%19
%V%%R%15
%V%%R%11
%V%%R%9
%V%%R%5
%V%%R%7
%V%%R%4
%V%%R%8
%V%%R%18
%V%%R%21
%V%%R%23
%CO:E,13,0%